TW-1054 Getting started section IA refactor (#4971)
postmanlabs/postman-docs: src/pages/docs/getting-started/first-steps/write-your-first-test.md

    url: "https://blog.postman.com/postman-first-5-things-to-try/"
  - type: subtitle
    name: "Public workspaces"
  - type: link
    name: "30 days of Postman for developers"
    url:  "https://www.postman.com/postman/workspace/30-days-of-postman-for-developers/overview"
---

_API tests_ are a way to programmatically assert that your API is behaving as you expect it to. For example, you might write a test to validate your API's error handling by sending a request with incomplete data or wrong parameters. You can write test scripts for your Postman API requests in JavaScript and add them to individual [requests](/docs/sending-requests/requests/), [collections](/docs/sending-requests/intro-to-collections/), and folders in a collection. Postman includes code snippets you can add and then change to suit your test logic.

To write a test, do the following:

1. Open an API request. If you don't have one, try [sending your first request](/docs/getting-started/first-steps/sending-the-first-request/).

1. In the request, go to the **Tests** tab.

1. In the snippet section to the right, select the snippet `Status code: Code is 200`. This will enter the following test code:

>     <!-- TODO: image -->

Reviewer: Did we intend to add a code sample here?

```
pm.test("Status code is 200", function () {
    pm.response.to.have.status(200);
});
```

1. Select **Send**.

> After the request runs, the test will run. Go to the **Test Results** section of the response, and you will see the test passed, because the request was successful.

Reviewer: In the first step, what do you think about instructing users to send a request to `postman-echo.com/get`? The end results explains that the test will pass, but the first step asks users to open existing API request that may or may not succeed. My thinking is that users might find it more helpful if we provide a request URL that is likely to succeed.

If we don't want to provide a request URL in this tutorial, what if we update the end result to something like: `After the request runs, the test will run. Go to the **Test Results** section of the response to review the results of your test.`

Author: The assumption was that they'd do this page after they've done the previous page and still had that request open. I changed the first step slightly for that. I also took the thing you had in the second p above. And I removed the screenshot, since it was for a more complex example.

---
title: "Write your first test"
updated: 2023-07-26
contextual_links:
  - type: section
    name: "Additional resources"
  - type: subtitle
    name: "Videos"
  - type: link
    name: "Intro to Postman | Part 1: Send a Request"
    url: "https://youtu.be/2oOSnxZ28fA"
  - type: link
    name: "How to use an API? | Intro to APIs Part 2"
    url:  "https://youtu.be/woRuedXZyi4"
  - type: link
    name: "Postman Student Programs - Finding the right API for the job"
    url:  "https://youtu.be/d6abDKrGFYU"
  - type: subtitle
    name: "Blog posts"
  - type: link
    name: "What is an API endpoint?"
    url: "https://blog.postman.com/what-is-an-api-endpoint/"
  - type: link
    name: "First 5 Things to Try If You’re New to Postman"
    url: "https://blog.postman.com/postman-first-5-things-to-try/"
  - type: subtitle
    name: "Public workspaces"
  - type: link
    name: "30 days of Postman for developers"
    url:  "https://www.postman.com/postman/workspace/30-days-of-postman-for-developers/overview"
---

> _API tests_ are a way to programmatically assert that your API is behaving as you expect it to. For example, you might write a test to validate your API's error handling by sending a request with incomplete data or wrong parameters. You can write test scripts for your Postman API requests in JavaScript and add them to individual [requests](/docs/sending-requests/requests/), [collections](/docs/sending-requests/intro-to-collections/), and folders in a collection. Postman includes code snippets you can add and then change to suit your test logic.

Reviewer 2: The first sentence comes across as a bit more technical than some of our audiences might be comfortable with (students, non-tech folks, international users). Since this is a first steps page, I wonder if we could simplify (below might be _too_ simplified but that idea).

```suggestion
_API tests_ are a way to ensure your API is behaving as you expect it to. For example, you might write a test to validate your API's error handling by sending a request with incomplete data or wrong parameters. You can write test scripts for your Postman API requests in JavaScript and add them to individual [requests](/docs/sending-requests/requests/), [collections](/docs/sending-requests/intro-to-collections/), and folders in a collection. Postman includes code snippets you can add and then change to suit your test logic.
```
